python/tools/recorded-call-graph-metrics/README.md, before:

# Recorded Call Graph Metrics

also known as _call graph tracing_.

Execute a python program and for each call being made, record the call and callee. This allows us to compare call graph resolution from static analysis with actual data -- that is, can we statically determine the target of each actual call correctly.

Using the call graph tracer does incur heave toll on the performance. Expect 10x longer to execute program.

Number of calls recorded vary a little from run to run. I have not been able to pinpoint why.

## Running against real projects

Currently it's possible to gather metrics from traced runs against two projects (defined in [projects.json](./projects.json)): `youtube-dl` and `wcwidth`.

To run against all projects, use

```bash
$ ./helper.sh all $(./helper.sh projects)
```

To view the results, use
```
$ head -n 100 projects/*/Metrics.txt
```

## Local development

### Setup

1. Ensure you have at least Python 3.7

2. Create virtual environment `python3 -m venv venv` and activate it

3. Install dependencies `pip install -r --upgrade requirements.txt`

4. Install this codebase as an editable package `pip install -e .`

5. Setup your editor. If you're using VS Code, create a new project for this folder, and
   use these settings for correct autoformatting of code on save:
  ```
  {
      "python.pythonPath": "venv/bin/python",
      "python.linting.enabled": true,
      "python.linting.flake8Enabled": true,
      "python.formatting.provider": "black",
      "editor.formatOnSave": true,
      "[python]": {
          "editor.codeActionsOnSave": {
              "source.organizeImports": true
          }
      },
      "python.autoComplete.extraPaths": [
          "src"
      ]
  }
  ```

6. Enjoy writing code, and being able to run `cg-trace` on your command line :tada:

### Using it

After following setup instructions above, you should be able to reproduce the example trace by running

```
cg-trace --xml example/simple.xml example/simple.py
```

You can also run traces for all tests and build a database by running `tests/create-test-db.sh`. Then run the queries inside the `ql/` directory.

## Tracing Limitations

### Multi-threading

Should be possible by using [`threading.setprofile`](https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/threading.html#threading.setprofile), but that hasn't been done yet.

### Code that uses `sys.setprofile`

Since that is our mechanism for recording calls, any code that uses `sys.setprofile` will not work together with the call-graph tracer.

### Class instantiation

Does not always fire off an event in the `sys.setprofile` function (neither in `sys.settrace`), so is not recorded. Example:

```
r = range(10)
```

when disassembled (`python -m dis <file>`):

```
  9          48 LOAD_NAME                7 (range)
             50 LOAD_CONST               5 (10)
             52 CALL_FUNCTION            1
             54 STORE_NAME               8 (r)
```

but no event :disappointed:

Commit message:

Python: CG trace: Mention adding projects in README

python/tools/recorded-call-graph-metrics/README.md, after:

# Recorded Call Graph Metrics

also known as _call graph tracing_.

Execute a python program and for each call being made, record the call and callee. This allows us to compare call graph resolution from static analysis with actual data -- that is, can we statically determine the target of each actual call correctly.

Using the call graph tracer does incur heave toll on the performance. Expect 10x longer to execute program.

Number of calls recorded vary a little from run to run. I have not been able to pinpoint why.

## Running against real projects

Currently it's possible to gather metrics from traced runs of the standard test suite of a few projects (defined in [projects.json](./projects.json)): `youtube-dl`, `wcwidth`, and `flask`.

To run against all projects, use

```bash
$ ./helper.sh all $(./helper.sh projects)
```

To view the results, use
```
$ head -n 100 projects/*/Metrics.txt
```

### Expanding set of projects

It should be fairly straight forward to expand the set of projects. Most projects use `tox` for running their tests against multiple python versions. I didn't look into any kind of integration, but have manually picked out the instructions required to get going.

As an example, compare the [`tox.ini`](https://github.com/pallets/flask/blob/21c3df31de4bc2f838c945bd37d185210d9bab1a/tox.ini) file from flask with the configuration

```json
    "flask": {
        "repo": "https://github.com/pallets/flask.git",
        "sha": "21c3df31de4bc2f838c945bd37d185210d9bab1a",
        "module_command": "pytest -c /dev/null tests examples",
        "setup": [
            "pip install -r requirements/tests.txt",
            "pip install -q -e examples/tutorial[test]",
            "pip install -q -e examples/javascript[test]"
        ]
    }
```

## Local development

### Setup

1. Ensure you have at least Python 3.7

2. Create virtual environment `python3 -m venv venv` and activate it

3. Install dependencies `pip install -r --upgrade requirements.txt`

4. Install this codebase as an editable package `pip install -e .`

5. Setup your editor. If you're using VS Code, create a new project for this folder, and
   use these settings for correct autoformatting of code on save:
  ```
  {
      "python.pythonPath": "venv/bin/python",
      "python.linting.enabled": true,
      "python.linting.flake8Enabled": true,
      "python.formatting.provider": "black",
      "editor.formatOnSave": true,
      "[python]": {
          "editor.codeActionsOnSave": {
              "source.organizeImports": true
          }
      },
      "python.autoComplete.extraPaths": [
          "src"
      ]
  }
  ```

6. Enjoy writing code, and being able to run `cg-trace` on your command line :tada:

### Using it

After following setup instructions above, you should be able to reproduce the example trace by running

```
cg-trace --xml example/simple.xml example/simple.py
```

You can also run traces for all tests and build a database by running `tests/create-test-db.sh`. Then run the queries inside the `ql/` directory.

## Tracing Limitations

### Multi-threading

Should be possible by using [`threading.setprofile`](https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/threading.html#threading.setprofile), but that hasn't been done yet.

### Code that uses `sys.setprofile`

Since that is our mechanism for recording calls, any code that uses `sys.setprofile` will not work together with the call-graph tracer.

### Class instantiation

Does not always fire off an event in the `sys.setprofile` function (neither in `sys.settrace`), so is not recorded. Example:

```
r = range(10)
```

when disassembled (`python -m dis <file>`):

```
  9          48 LOAD_NAME                7 (range)
             50 LOAD_CONST               5 (10)
             52 CALL_FUNCTION            1
             54 STORE_NAME               8 (r)
```

but no event :disappointed:
