## 7.1.0

### New Features

* Added a subclass `Embed` of `PreprocessorDirective` for C23 and C++26 `#embed` preprocessor directives.
* Added modules `DataFlow::ParameterizedBarrierGuard` and `DataFlow::ParameterizedInstructionBarrierGuard`. These modules provide the same features as `DataFlow::BarrierGuard` and `DataFlow::InstructionBarrierGuard`, but allow for an additional parameter to support properly using them in dataflow configurations that uses flow states.

### Minor Analysis Improvements

* The `Buffer.qll` library will no longer report incorrect buffer sizes on certain malformed databases. As a result, the queries `cpp/static-buffer-overflow`, `cpp/overflow-buffer`, `cpp/badly-bounded-write`, `cpp/overrunning-write`, `cpp/overrunning-write-with-float`, and `cpp/very-likely-overrunning-write` will report fewer false positives on such databases.
* Added `taint` summary models and `sql-injection` barrier models for the MySQL `mysql_real_escape_string` and `mysql_real_escape_string_quote` escaping functions.
* The predicate `SummarizedCallable.propagatesFlow` has been extended with the columns `Provenance p` and `boolean isExact`, and as a consequence the predicates `SummarizedCallable.hasProvenance` and `SummarizedCallable.hasExactModel` have been removed.

### Bug Fixes

* Fixed a bug in the `GuardCondition` library which sometimes prevented binary logical operators from being recognized as guard conditions. As a result, queries using `GuardCondition` may see improved results.
* Fixed a bug which caused `Node.asDefinition()` to not have a result for certain assignments.
