## 0.8.0

### New Features

* Kotlin versions up to 1.9.20 are now supported.

### Minor Analysis Improvements

* Modified the `EnvInput` class in `semmle.code.java.dataflow.FlowSources` to include `environment` and `file` source nodes.
  There are no changes to results unless you add source models using the `environment` or `file` source kinds.
* Added `environment` source models for the following methods:
  * `java.lang.System#getenv`
  * `java.lang.System#getProperties`
  * `java.lang.System#getProperty`
  * `java.util.Properties#get`
  * `java.util.Properties#getProperty`
* Added `file` source models for the following methods:
  * the `java.io.FileInputStream` constructor
  * `hudson.FilePath#newInputStreamDenyingSymlinkAsNeeded`
  * `hudson.FilePath#openInputStream`
  * `hudson.FilePath#read`
  * `hudson.FilePath#readFromOffset`
  * `hudson.FilePath#readToString`
* Modified the `DatabaseInput` class in `semmle.code.java.dataflow.FlowSources` to include `database` source nodes.
  There are no changes to results unless you add source models using the `database` source kind.
* Added `database` source models for the following method:
  * `java.sql.ResultSet#getString`
* Fixed a control-flow bug where case rule statements would incorrectly include a fall-through edge.
* Added support for default cases as proper guards in switch expressions to match switch statements.
* Improved the class `ArithExpr` of the `Overflow.qll` module to also include compound operators. Because of this, new alerts may be raised in queries related to overflows/underflows.
* Added new dataflow models for the Apache CXF framework.
* Regular expressions containing multiple parse mode flags are now interpretted correctly. For example `"(?is)abc.*"` with both the `i` and `s` flags.

### Bug Fixes

* The regular expressions library no longer incorrectly matches mode flag characters against the input.
