python/ql/src/experimental/dataflow/internal/readme.md, before:

# Using the shared dataflow library

## File organisation

The files currently live in `experimental` (whereas the existing implementation lives in `semmle\python\dataflow`).

In there is found `DataFlow.qll`, `DataFlow2.qll` etc. which refer to `internal\DataFlowImpl`, `internal\DataFlowImpl2` etc. respectively. The `DataFlowImplN`-files are all identical copies to avoid mutual recursion. They start off by including two files `internal\DataFlowImplCommon` and `internal\DataFlowImplSpecific`. The former contains all the language-agnostic definitions, while the latter is where we describe our favorite language. `Sepcific` simply forwards to two other files `internal\DataFlowPrivate.qll` and `internal\DataFlowPublic.qll`. Definitions in the former will be hidden behind a `private` modifier, while those in the latter can be referred to in data flow queries. For instance, the definition of `DataFlow::Node` should likely be in `DataFlowPublic.qll`.

## Define the dataflow graph

In order to use the dataflow library, we need to define the dataflow graph,
that is define the nodes and the edges.

### Define the nodes

The nodes are defined in the type `DataFlow::Node` (found in `DataFlowPublic.qll`).
This should likely be an IPA type, so we can extend it as needed.

Typical cases needed to construct the call graph include
 - argument node
 - parameter node
 - return node

Typical extensions include
 - postupdate nodes
 - implicit `this`-nodes

### Define the edges

The edges split into local flow (within a function) and global flow (the call graph, between functions/procedures).

Extra flow, such as reading from and writing to global variables, can be captured in `jumpStep`.
The local flow should be obtainalble from an SSA computation.
Local flow nodes are generally either control flow nodes or SSA variables.
Flow from control flow nodes to SSA variables comes from SSA variable definitions, while flow from SSA variables to control flow nodes comes from def-use pairs.

The global flow should be obtainable from a `PointsTo` analysis. It is specified via `viableCallable` and
`getAnOutNode`. Consider making `ReturnKind` a singleton IPA type as in java.

Global flow includes local flow within a consistent call context. Thus, for local flow to count as global flow, all relevant node should implement `getEnclosingCallable`.

If complicated dispatch needs to be modelled, try using the `[reduced|pruned]viable*` predicates.

## Field flow

To track flow through fields we need to provide a model of fields, that is the `Content` class.

Field access is specified via `read_step` and `store_step`.

Work is being done to make field flow handle lists and dictionaries and the like.

`PostUpdateNode`s become important when field flow is used, as they track modifications to fields resulting from function calls.

## Type pruning

If type information is available, flows can be discarded on the grounds of type mismatch.

Tracked types are given by the class `DataFlowType` and the predicate `getTypeBound`, and compatibility is recorded in the predicate `compatibleTypes`.
If type pruning is not used, `compatibleTypes` should be implemented as `any`; if it is implemented, say, as `none`, all flows will be pruned.

Further, possible casts are given by the class `CastNode`.

---

# Plan

## Stage I, data flow

### Phase 0, setup
Define minimal IPA type for `DataFlow::Node`
Define all required predicates empty (via `none()`),
except `compatibleTypes` which should be `any()`.
Define `ReturnKind`, `DataFlowType`, and `Content` as singleton IPA types.


### Phase 1, local flow
Implement `simpleLocalFlowStep` based on the existing SSA computation

### Phase 2, local flow
Implement `viableCallable` and `getAnOutNode` based on the existing predicate `PointsTo`.

### Phase 3, field flow
Redefine `Content` and implement `read_step` and `store_step`.

Review use of post-update nodes.

### Phase 4, type pruning
Use type trackers to obtain relevant type information and redefine `DataFlowType` to contain appropriate cases. Record the type information in `getTypeBound`.

Implement `compatibleTypes` (perhaps simply as the identity).

If necessary, re-implement `getErasedRepr` and `ppReprType`.

If necessary, redefine `CastNode`.

### Phase 5, bonus
Review possible use of `[reduced|pruned]viable*` predicates.

Review need for more elaborate `ReturnKind`.

Review need for non-empty `jumpStep`.

Review need for non-empty `isUnreachableInCall`.

## Stage II, taint tracking

# Phase 0, setup
Implement all predicates empty.

# Phase 1, experiments
Try recovering an existing taint tracking query by implementing sources, sinks, sanitizers, and barriers.

Commit message:

Python: quick status added to `readme.md`

python/ql/src/experimental/dataflow/internal/readme.md, after:

# Using the shared dataflow library

## File organisation

The files currently live in `experimental` (whereas the existing implementation lives in `semmle\python\dataflow`).

In there is found `DataFlow.qll`, `DataFlow2.qll` etc. which refer to `internal\DataFlowImpl`, `internal\DataFlowImpl2` etc. respectively. The `DataFlowImplN`-files are all identical copies to avoid mutual recursion. They start off by including two files `internal\DataFlowImplCommon` and `internal\DataFlowImplSpecific`. The former contains all the language-agnostic definitions, while the latter is where we describe our favorite language. `Sepcific` simply forwards to two other files `internal\DataFlowPrivate.qll` and `internal\DataFlowPublic.qll`. Definitions in the former will be hidden behind a `private` modifier, while those in the latter can be referred to in data flow queries. For instance, the definition of `DataFlow::Node` should likely be in `DataFlowPublic.qll`.

## Define the dataflow graph

In order to use the dataflow library, we need to define the dataflow graph,
that is define the nodes and the edges.

### Define the nodes

The nodes are defined in the type `DataFlow::Node` (found in `DataFlowPublic.qll`).
This should likely be an IPA type, so we can extend it as needed.

Typical cases needed to construct the call graph include
 - argument node
 - parameter node
 - return node

Typical extensions include
 - postupdate nodes
 - implicit `this`-nodes

### Define the edges

The edges split into local flow (within a function) and global flow (the call graph, between functions/procedures).

Extra flow, such as reading from and writing to global variables, can be captured in `jumpStep`.
The local flow should be obtainalble from an SSA computation.
Local flow nodes are generally either control flow nodes or SSA variables.
Flow from control flow nodes to SSA variables comes from SSA variable definitions, while flow from SSA variables to control flow nodes comes from def-use pairs.

The global flow should be obtainable from a `PointsTo` analysis. It is specified via `viableCallable` and
`getAnOutNode`. Consider making `ReturnKind` a singleton IPA type as in java.

Global flow includes local flow within a consistent call context. Thus, for local flow to count as global flow, all relevant nodes should implement `getEnclosingCallable`.

If complicated dispatch needs to be modelled, try using the `[reduced|pruned]viable*` predicates.

## Field flow

To track flow through fields we need to provide a model of fields, that is the `Content` class.

Field access is specified via `read_step` and `store_step`.

Work is being done to make field flow handle lists and dictionaries and the like.

`PostUpdateNode`s become important when field flow is used, as they track modifications to fields resulting from function calls.

## Type pruning

If type information is available, flows can be discarded on the grounds of type mismatch.

Tracked types are given by the class `DataFlowType` and the predicate `getTypeBound`, and compatibility is recorded in the predicate `compatibleTypes`.
If type pruning is not used, `compatibleTypes` should be implemented as `any`; if it is implemented, say, as `none`, all flows will be pruned.

Further, possible casts are given by the class `CastNode`.

---

# Plan

## Stage I, data flow

### Phase 0, setup
Define minimal IPA type for `DataFlow::Node`
Define all required predicates empty (via `none()`),
except `compatibleTypes` which should be `any()`.
Define `ReturnKind`, `DataFlowType`, and `Content` as singleton IPA types.


### Phase 1, local flow
Implement `simpleLocalFlowStep` based on the existing SSA computation

### Phase 2, local flow
Implement `viableCallable` and `getAnOutNode` based on the existing predicate `PointsTo`.

### Phase 3, field flow
Redefine `Content` and implement `read_step` and `store_step`.

Review use of post-update nodes.

### Phase 4, type pruning
Use type trackers to obtain relevant type information and redefine `DataFlowType` to contain appropriate cases. Record the type information in `getTypeBound`.

Implement `compatibleTypes` (perhaps simply as the identity).

If necessary, re-implement `getErasedRepr` and `ppReprType`.

If necessary, redefine `CastNode`.

### Phase 5, bonus
Review possible use of `[reduced|pruned]viable*` predicates.

Review need for more elaborate `ReturnKind`.

Review need for non-empty `jumpStep`.

Review need for non-empty `isUnreachableInCall`.

## Stage II, taint tracking

# Phase 0, setup
Implement all predicates empty.

# Phase 1, experiments
Try recovering an existing taint tracking query by implementing sources, sinks, sanitizers, and barriers.

---

# Status

## Achieved

- Simple flow into, out of, and through functions

## TODO

- Consider replacing def-use with def-to-first-use and use-to-next-use in local flow
- The regression tests track the value of guards in order to eliminate impossible data flow. We currently have regressions because of this. We cannot readily replicate the existing method, as it uses the interdefinedness of data flow and taint tracking (there is a boolean taint kind). C++ does something similar for eliminating impossible control flow, which we might be able to replicate (they infer values of "interesting" control flow nodes, which are those needed to determine values of guards).
- Flow for some syntactis constructs is done via extra taint steps in the existing implementation, we shoudl find a way to get data flow for it. Much of this should be covered by field flow.
- A document is being written about proper use of the shared data flow library, this should be adhered to.
