## 0.0.7

### New Queries

* A new query "Use of implicit PendingIntents" (`java/android/pending-intents`) has been added.
This query finds implicit and mutable `PendingIntents` being sent to an unspecified third party component,
which can provide access to internal components of the application or cause other unintended
effects.
* Two new queries, "Android fragment injection" (`java/android/fragment-injection`) and "Android fragment injection in PreferenceActivity" (`java/android/fragment-injection-preference-activity`) have been added.
These queries find exported Android activities that instantiate and host fragments created from user-provided data. Such activities are vulnerable to access control bypass and expose the Android application to unintended effects.
* The query "Log Injection" (`java/log-injection`) has been promoted from experimental to the main query pack. Its results will now appear by default. The query was originally [submitted as an experimental query by @porcupineyhairs and @dellalibera](https://github.com/github/codeql/pull/5099).
* A new query "Cleartext storage of sensitive information in the Android filesystem" (`java/android/cleartext-storage-filesystem`) has been added. This query finds instances of sensitive data being stored in local files without encryption, which may expose it to attackers or malicious applications.
* The query "Cleartext storage of sensitive information using `SharedPreferences` on Android" (`java/android/cleartext-storage-shared-prefs`) has been promoted from experimental to the main query pack. Its results will now appear by default. This query was originally [submitted as an experimental query by @luchua-bc](https://github.com/github/codeql/pull/4675).
