## 5.2.6

### Minor Analysis Improvements

* The extraction of location information for parameters, fields, constructors, destructors and user operators has been optimized. Previously, location information was extracted multiple times for each bound generic. Now, only the location of the unbound generic declaration is extracted during the extraction phase, and the QL library explicitly reuses this location for all bound instances of the same generic.
* The extraction of location information for type parameters and tuples types has been optimized. Previously, location information was extracted multiple times for each type when it was declared across multiple files. Now, the extraction context is respected during the extraction phase, ensuring locations are only extracted within the appropriate context. This change should be transparent to end-users but may improve extraction performance in some cases.
* The extraction of location information for named types (classes, structs, etc.) has been optimized. Previously, location information was extracted multiple times for each type when it was declared across multiple files. Now, the extraction context is respected during the extraction phase, ensuring locations are only extracted within the appropriate context. This change should be transparent to end-users but may improve extraction performance in some cases.
* The extraction of the location for bound generic entities (methods, accessors, indexers, properties, and events) has been optimized. Previously, location information was extracted multiple times for each bound generic. Now, only the location of the unbound generic declaration is extracted during the extraction phase, and the QL library explicitly reuses this location for all bound instances of the same generic.
